Add the "Content based Message Routing" tutorial (#4)
ballerina-guides/integration-tutorials: content-based-message-routing/README.md

# Content Based Message Routing

> ## What you'll build

Reviewer: Please update titles similar to the first tutorial.

> Let's develop a service that accepts requests to make an appointment at a hospital, makes a call to a particular hospital endpoint depending on the content provided.

Reviewer: Incomplete sentence?

> To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the `hospital_id`, send to the hospital endpoint and retrieve the response with the correct reservation details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the `hospital_id`, send to the hospital endpoint and retrieve the response with the correct reservation details.
```

"send to the hospital endpoint " send what?

> To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the `hospital_id`, send to the hospital endpoint and retrieve the response with the correct reservation details.

Author: Too much duplicate information

The flow is as follows:

> 1. Receive a request with a json payload as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Receive a request with a JSON payload as follows.
```

```json
{
    "patient": {
        "name": "John Doe",
        "dob": "1940-03-19",
        "ssn": "234-23-525",
        "address": "California",
        "phone": "8770586755",
        "email": "johndoe@gmail.com",
        "card_no": "7844481124110331"
    },
    "doctor": "thomas collins",
    "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
    "appointment_date": "2017-04-02"
}
```

2. Extract the `hospital_id` and select the hospital backend. 

- grandoaks -> `http://localhost:9090/grandoaks/categories`
- clemencyEP -> `http://localhost:9090/clemency/categories`

> - pinevalley -> `http://localhost:9090/pinevalley/categories`

Reviewer: Why does only one have EP?

> 3. Call the selected hospital service with the details of the payload and retrieve the response which will be in the following form.

Reviewer: What do we mean by "details of the payload"? Let's reword this.

```json
{
    "appointmentNumber": 8,
    "doctor": {
        "name": "thomas collins",
        "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
        "category": "surgery",
        "availability": "9.00 a.m - 11.00 a.m",
        "fee": 7000.0
    },
    "patient": {
        "name": "John Doe",
        "dob": "1940-03-19",
        "ssn": "234-23-525",
        "address": "California",
        "phone": "8770586755",
        "email": "johndoe@gmail.com"
    },
    "fee": 7000.0,
    "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
    "confirmed": false,
    "appointmentDate": "2017-04-02"
}
```

### Concepts covered

- REST API
- HTTP Client

> ## Let's get started!

Reviewer: Needs to be updated.

### Step 1: Set up the workspace

Install [Ballerina Swan Lake](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) and the [Ballerina Swan Lake VSCode extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wso2.ballerina) on VSCode.

### Step 2: Develop the service

> Follow the instruction given in this to develop the service.

Reviewer: Fix "given in **this**".

1. Create a new Ballerina project using the `bal` command and open it in VSCode.

```bash
$ bal new content-based-message-routing
```

2. Introduce the source code in files with the `.bal` extension. (e.g., the `main.bal` file)

> Import the following modules.

Author: Unnecessary. Its already mentioned in the section below

Import the
- `ballerina/http` module to develop the REST API and define the clients that can be used to send requests to the backend services

> - `ballerina/log` module to log debug, error or info levels of information for each client request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ballerina/log` module to log debug, error, or info levels of information for each client request
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/log;
```

> 3. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the port the listener listen.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the port the listener listen on.
```

> 3. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the port the listener listen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the port the listener listen.

```

Reviewer: Why aren't we including the snippet here?

4. Define three [`http:Client` clients](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#http-client) to send requests to the backend services.

```ballerina
final http:Client grandOaksEP = check initializeHttpClient("http://localhost:9090/grandoaks/categories");
final http:Client clemencyEP = check initializeHttpClient("http://localhost:9090/clemency/categories");
final http:Client pineValleyEP = check initializeHttpClient("http://localhost:9090/pinevalley/categories");

function initializeHttpClient(string url) returns http:Client|error => new (url);
```
The argument passed to the `new` expression is the URL of the backend service.

> **Note:** Here, a separate function is used to initialize the clients to aid with testing. Alternatively, the `new` expression can be used to initialize the clients.
> ```ballerina
> final http:Client grandoaksEP = new ("http://localhost:9090/grandoaks/categories");
> final http:Client clemencyEP = new ("http://localhost:9090/clemency/categories");
> final http:Client pinevalleyEP = new ("http://localhost:9090/pinevalley/categories");
>```

> 5. Define records corresponding to the request payload and response payloads.

Reviewer: Why payloads? Isn't there just one?

```ballerina
type Patient record {|
    string name;
    string dob;
    string ssn;
    string address;
    string phone;
    string email;
|};

type ReservationRequest record {|
    Patient patient;
    string doctor;
    string hospital_id;
    string hospital;
    string appointment_date;
|};

type Doctor record {|
    string name;
    string hospital;
    string category;
    string availability;
    float fee;
|};

type ReservationResponse record {|
    int appointmentNumber;
    Doctor doctor;
    Patient patient;
    float fee;
    string hospital;
    boolean confirmed;
    string appointmentDate;
|};
```

> 6. Define the [HTTP service (REST API)](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#rest-service) that has the resource that accepts user requests, makes calls to the hospital backend services, retrieve relevant details, and responds to the client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Define the [HTTP service (REST API)](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#rest-service) that has the resource that accepts user requests, makes calls to the hospital backend services, retrieves relevant details, and responds to the client. 
```

# Content Based Message Routing

## Overview

> Let's develop a service that accepts requests to make an appointment at a hospital and makes a call to a particular hospital endpoint depending on the content provided.

Reviewer: Still inconsistent with the new changes.

> To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the `hospital_id`, send a request to the hospital service and respond with the correct reservation details

Reviewer: hospital endpoint vs hospital service. Let's ensure the flow with the same terms where applicable. 

```suggestion
To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the `hospital_id`, send a request to the hospital service, and respond with the correct reservation details
```

The flow is as follows:

1. Receive a request with a JSON payload similar to the following.

```json
{
    "patient": {
        "name": "John Doe",
        "dob": "1940-03-19",
        "ssn": "234-23-525",
        "address": "California",
        "phone": "8770586755",
        "email": "johndoe@gmail.com",
        "card_no": "7844481124110331"
    },
    "doctor": "thomas collins",
    "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
    "appointment_date": "2017-04-02"
}
```

> 2. Extract the `hospital_id` and select the hospital end-point. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Extract `hospital_id` and select the hospital end-point. 
```

or

```suggestion
2. Extract the `hospital_id` field and select the hospital endpoint. 
```

Reviewer: no `hospital_id` in 1.?

> - grand oaks -> `http://localhost:9090/grandoaks/categories`

Reviewer: grand oaks or grand oak?

- clemency -> `http://localhost:9090/clemency/categories`
- pine valley -> `http://localhost:9090/pinevalley/categories`

3. Send a request to the selected hospital service and retrieve the response which will be similar to the following.

```json
{
    "appointmentNumber": 8,
    "doctor": {
        "name": "thomas collins",
        "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
        "category": "surgery",
        "availability": "9.00 a.m - 11.00 a.m",
        "fee": 7000.0
    },
    "patient": {
        "name": "John Doe",
        "dob": "1940-03-19",
        "ssn": "234-23-525",
        "address": "California",
        "phone": "8770586755",
        "email": "johndoe@gmail.com"
    },
    "fee": 7000.0,
    "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
    "confirmed": false,
    "appointmentDate": "2017-04-02"
}
```

### Concepts covered

- REST API
- HTTP Client

## Develop the application

### Step 1: Set up the workspace

Install [Ballerina Swan Lake](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) and the [Ballerina Swan Lake VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wso2.ballerina) on VS Code.

### Step 2: Develop the service

> Follow the instruction given in this section to develop the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions given in this section to develop the service.
```

> 1. Create a new Ballerina project using the `bal` command and open it in VSCode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new Ballerina project using the `bal` command and open it in VS Code.
```

Update wherever applicable.

```bash
$ bal new content-based-message-routing
```

2. Introduce the source code in files with the `.bal` extension. (e.g., the `main.bal` file)

Import the
- `ballerina/http` module to develop the REST API and define the clients that can be used to send requests to the backend services

> - `ballerina/log` module to log debug, error, or info levels of information for each client request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ballerina/log` module to log debug, error, or info level information for each client request
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/log;
```

> 3. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the port the listener listen on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the port on which the listener should listen.
```

```ballerina
configurable int port = 8290;
```

> 4. Define three [`http:Client` clients](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#http-client) to send requests to the backend services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Define three [`http:Client`](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#http-client) clients to send requests to the backend services.
```

```ballerina
final http:Client grandOaksEP = check initializeHttpClient("http://localhost:9090/grandoaks/categories");
final http:Client clemencyEP = check initializeHttpClient("http://localhost:9090/clemency/categories");
final http:Client pineValleyEP = check initializeHttpClient("http://localhost:9090/pinevalley/categories");

function initializeHttpClient(string url) returns http:Client|error => new (url);
```

> > **Note:** The argument passed to the `new` expression is the URL of the backend service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **Note:** The argument passed to the `new` expression is the URL of the backend service.
```

Use `/healthcare` as the service path (or the context) of the service which is attached to the listener listening on port `port`. Define an HTTP resource that allows the `POST` operation on resource path `/categories/{category}/reserve`, where `category` (corresponding to the specialization) is a path parameter. Use `ReservationRequest` as a parameter indicating that the resource expects a JSON object corresponding to `ReservationRequest` as the payload. Use `ReservationResponse|http:NotFound|http:BadRequest|http:InternalServerError` as the return type to indicate that the response will have a JSON payload corresponding to `ReservationResponse` on success or the response will be a "NotFound", "BadRequest" or "InternalServerError" response on error.

```ballerina
service /healthcare on new http:Listener(port) {
    resource function post categories/[string category]/reserve(ReservationRequest payload) 
            returns ReservationResponse|http:NotFound|http:BadRequest|http:InternalServerError {
        
    }
```

> 7. Implement the logic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Implement the logic.
```

                log:printInfo("Routed to Clemency Medical Center");
                hospitalEP = clemencyEP;
            }
            "pinevalley" => {
                log:printInfo("Routed to Pine Valley Community Hospital");
                hospitalEP = pineValleyEP;
            }
        }

        if hospitalEP is () {
            log:printError(string `Routed to none. Hospital not found: ${hospital_id}`);
            return <http:NotFound>{body: string `Hospital not found: ${hospital_id}`};
        }

        ReservationResponse|http:ClientError resp = hospitalEP->/[category]/reserve.post({patient, ...reservationRequest});

        if resp is ReservationResponse {
            log:printDebug("Reservation request successful",
                            name = patient.name,
                            appointmentNumber = resp.appointmentNumber);
            return resp;
        }

        log:printError("Reservation request failed", resp);
        if resp is http:ClientRequestError {
            return <http:NotFound>{body: "Unknown hospital, doctor or category"};
        }

        return <http:InternalServerError>{body: resp.message()};
    }
}
```

> - Initialize `hospitalEP` to a null value. Later, this variable is assigned to the relevant client based on the `hospital_id` value.

Reviewer: null is for JSON contexts. Use nil instead. Also mention that the type is a union of `http:Client` and nil.

Reviewer: The relevant client is assigned to this variable. Currently reads the other way around.

    ```ballerina
    http:Client? hospitalEP = ();
    ```

> - Use a [typed binding pattern with a mapping binding pattern to destructure](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/rest-binding-pattern-in-mapping-binding-pattern/) the payload and assign required components of the value to separate variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Use a [typed binding pattern with a mapping binding pattern to destructure](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/rest-binding-pattern-in-mapping-binding-pattern/) the payload and assign required components of the value to separate variables.
```

Check and add new lines where necessary.

    
    ```ballerina
    ReservationRequest {hospital_id, patient, ...reservationRequest} = payload;
    ```
    
    Here,
    - The `hospital_id` value is assigned to the `hospital_id` variable. 
    - The `patient` value is assigned to the `patient` variable of type `Patient` (fields are exactly those expected by the `Patient` record). 

>     - The remaining components of the payload are assigned to the `reservationRequest` variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The remaining components of the payload are collected in a mapping value and assigned to the `reservationRequest` variable.
```

> - The `log` functions are used to [log](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#log) information at `INFO`, `DEBUG` and `ERROR` log levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `log` functions are used to [log](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#log) information at `INFO`, `DEBUG`, and `ERROR` log levels.
```

Can just say info, debug, and error too.

- Use a [match statement](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/match-statement) to assign the relevant client to the `hospitalEP` variable based on the `hospital_id` value.
    ```ballerina
    match hospital_id {
        "grandoaks" => {
            log:printInfo("Routed to Grand Oak Community Hospital");
            hospitalEP = grandOaksEP;
        }
        "clemency" => {
            log:printInfo("Routed to Clemency Medical Center");
            hospitalEP = clemencyEP;
        }
        "pinevalley" => {
            log:printInfo("Routed to Pine Valley Community Hospital");
            hospitalEP = pineValleyEP;
        }
    }
    ```

- After assigning the relevant client to the `hospitalEP` variable, check whether the variable is still null. If so, return a "NotFound" response.
    ```ballerina
    if hospitalEP is () {

>         log:printError(string `Routed to none. Hospital not found: ${hospital_id}`);

Reviewer: Null, nil. May change based on the enum suggestion anyway.

        return <http:NotFound> {body: string `Hospital not found: ${hospital_id}`};
    }
    ```

> - The backend call is a `POST` request to the hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `category` value is used as path parameter. The response is assigned to the `resp` variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The backend call is a `POST` request to the hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `category` value is used as a path parameter. The response is assigned to the `resp` variable.
```

    ```ballerina
    ReservationResponse|http:ClientError resp = hospitalEP->/[category]/reserve.post({
        patient, 
        ...reservationRequest
    });
    ```

> - Use the `is` check to check whether the response is a `ReservationResponse` and return it as such if it is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `is` check to check whether the response is a `ReservationResponse` and return it as is (i.e., reservation successful).
```

    ```ballerina
    if resp is ReservationResponse {
        log:printDebug("Reservation request successful",
                        name = patient.name,
                        appointmentNumber = resp.appointmentNumber);
        return resp;
    }
    ```

> - If the response is not a `ReservationResponse`, log the error and return a "NotFound" response if the response is a `http:ClientRequestError` or an "InternalServerError" response if the response is a `http:ServerError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the response is not a `ReservationResponse`, log information at `ERROR` level and return a "NotFound" response if the response is a `http:ClientRequestError` or an "InternalServerError" response if the response is a `http:ServerError`.
```

I think we can improve the error stuff by rethinking the sentences. I did the same for service orchestration too.

    ```ballerina
    log:printError("Reservation request failed", resp);
    if resp is http:ClientRequestError {
        return <http:NotFound> {body: "Unknown hospital, doctor or category"};
    }

    return <http:InternalServerError> {body: resp.message()};
    ```
#### Complete source code

> You have successfully developed the required service.

Reviewer: Move to the previous section.

        log:printError("Reservation request failed", resp);
        if resp is http:ClientRequestError {
            return <http:NotFound> {body: "Unknown hospital, doctor or category"};
        }

        return <http:InternalServerError> {body: resp.message()};
    }
}
```

#### Diagram

The [sequence diagram view](https://wso2.com/ballerina/vscode/docs/implement-the-code/sequence-diagram-view/) for the implemented resource method is the following.

![sequence diagram](./resources/diagrm_content_based_message_routing.png)

### Step 3: Build and run the service

You can run this service by navigating to the project root and using the `bal run` command.

```bash
content-based-message-routing$ bal run
Compiling source
        integration_tutorials/content_based_message_routing:0.1.0

Running executable
```

### Step 4: Try out the use case

Let's test the use case by sending a request to the service.

#### Start the back end service

Download the JAR file for the backend service from [here](https://github.com/ballerina-guides/integration-tutorials/blob/main/backends/hospital-service/) and execute the following command to start the service:

```bash
bal run hospitalservice.jar
```

> #### Send a request to the service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Send a request to the service

```

Check everywhere.

                hospitalEP = grandOakEP;
            }
            CLEMENCY => {
                log:printInfo("Routed to Clemency Medical Center");
                hospitalEP = clemencyEP;
            }
            _ => {
                log:printInfo("Routed to Pine Valley Community Hospital");
                hospitalEP = pineValleyEP;
            }
        }
    ```

- The backend call is a `POST` request to the backend hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `category` value is used as a path parameter. The response is assigned to the `resp` variable.

    ```ballerina
    ReservationResponse|http:ClientError resp = hospitalEP->/[category]/reserve.post({
        patient, 
        ...reservationRequest
    });
    ```

- Use the `is` check to check whether the response is a `ReservationResponse` and return it as is (i.e., reservation successful)..

    ```ballerina
    if resp is ReservationResponse {
        log:printDebug("Reservation request successful",
                        name = patient.name,
                        appointmentNumber = resp.appointmentNumber);
        return resp;
    }
    ```

> - If the response is not a `ReservationResponse`, log information at `ERROR` level and return a "NotFound" response if the response is a `http:ClientRequestError` or an "InternalServerError" response if the response is a `http:ServerError`.

Reviewer 2: What do you think of the following?
```suggestion
- If the response is not a `ReservationResponse`, log the information at the `ERROR` level. Return a "NotFound" response if the response is a `http:ClientRequestError`, or an "InternalServerError" response if the response is a `http:ServerError`.
```

> # Content Based Message Routing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Content-based message routing
```

## Overview

> In this tutorial, we will develop a service that accepts requests to make an appointment at a hospital and makes a call to a selected hospital service endpoint depending on the content provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will develop a appointment reservation service for several hospitals. Requests are routed to the relevant hospital based on the content of the request payload.
```

Please recheck against the first tutorial.

>```

5. Define records corresponding to the request payload and response payload.

```ballerina
type Patient record {|
    string name;
    string dob;
    string ssn;
    string address;
    string phone;
    string email;
|};

type ReservationRequest record {|
    Patient patient;
    string doctor;
    string hospital_id;
    string hospital;
    string appointment_date;
|};

type Doctor record {|
    string name;
    string hospital;
    string category;
    string availability;
    float fee;
|};

type ReservationResponse record {|
    int appointmentNumber;
    Doctor doctor;
    Patient patient;
    float fee;
    string hospital;
    boolean confirmed;
    string appointmentDate;
|};
```

6. Introduce an [enum](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/enumerations/) to define the hospital IDs.

```ballerina
enum HospitalIds {
    GRANDOAKS = "grandoaks",
    CLEMENCY = "clemency",
    PINEVALLEY = "pinevalley"
};
```

7. Define the [HTTP service (REST API)](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#rest-service) that has the resource that accepts user requests, makes calls to the hospital backend services, retrieves relevant details, and responds to the client. 

> Use `/healthcare` as the service path (or the context) of the service which is attached to the listener listening on port `port`. Define an HTTP resource that allows the `POST` operation on resource path `/categories/{category}/reserve`, where `category` (corresponding to the specialization) is a path parameter. Use `ReservationRequest` as a parameter indicating that the resource expects a JSON object corresponding to `ReservationRequest` as the payload. Use `ReservationResponse|http:NotFound|http:BadRequest|http:InternalServerError` as the return type to indicate that the response will have a JSON payload corresponding to `ReservationResponse` on success or the response will be a "NotFound", "BadRequest" or "InternalServerError" response on error.

Reviewer: Change similar to service orchestration with bullet points after.

        match hospital_id {
            GRANDOAKS => {
                log:printInfo("Routed to Grand Oak Community Hospital");
                hospitalEP = grandOakEP;
            }
            CLEMENCY => {
                log:printInfo("Routed to Clemency Medical Center");
                hospitalEP = clemencyEP;
            }
            _ => {
                log:printInfo("Routed to Pine Valley Community Hospital");
                hospitalEP = pineValleyEP;
            }
        }

        ReservationResponse|http:ClientError resp = hospitalEP->/[category]/reserve.post({
            patient,
            ...reservationRequest
        });

        if resp is ReservationResponse {
            log:printDebug("Reservation request successful",
                            name = patient.name,
                            appointmentNumber = resp.appointmentNumber);
            return resp;
        }

        log:printError("Reservation request failed", resp);
        if resp is http:ClientRequestError {
            return <http:NotFound> {body: "Unknown hospital, doctor or category"};
        }

        return <http:InternalServerError> {body: resp.message()};
    }
}
```

> - Define `hospitalEP`. Later, this variable is assigned to the relevant client based on the `hospital_id` value.

Reviewer: Add new lines between content and code blocks.

Reviewer: If it is emphasized, it is usually a name, so needs to be a completed sentence. Comment re: assigning variable vs assigning to variable still aplpicable.

```suggestion
- Define the `hospitalEP` variable. Later, the relevant client is assigned to this variable based on the `hospital_id` value.
```

Author: Good point. Thanks

# Content-based message routing

## Overview

> In this tutorial, you will develop an appointment reservation service for several hospitals. Requests are routed to the relevant hospital based on the content of the request payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will develop a service via which you can reserve appointments at several hospitals. Requests are routed to the relevant hospital based on the content of the request payload.
```

> To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital service based on `hospital_id`, send a request to the hospital service, and respond with the correct reservation details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the hospital ID, send a request to make a reservation at the hospital, and respond with the reservation details.
```

The flow is as follows:

1. Receive a request with a JSON payload similar to the following.

```json
{
    "patient": {
        "name": "John Doe",
        "dob": "1940-03-19",
        "ssn": "234-23-525",
        "address": "California",
        "phone": "8770586755",
        "email": "johndoe@gmail.com",
        "card_no": "7844481124110331"
    },
    "doctor": "thomas collins",
    "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
    "appointment_date": "2017-04-02"
}
```

> 2. Extract `hospital_id` field and select the hospital service endpoint according to the following criteria. 

Reviewer: Mentioned previously also, but no `hospital_id` in the sample payload?

Author: got it.

# Content-based message routing

## Overview

In this tutorial, you will develop a service via which you can reserve appointments at several hospitals. The requests are routed to the relevant hospital based on the content of the request payload.

> To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the hospital ID, send a request to make a reservation at the hospital service, and respond with the correct reservation details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the hospital ID, send a request to the relevant hospital service to make a reservation, and respond with the reservation details.
```

The flow is as follows:

1. Receive a request with a JSON payload similar to the following.

```json
{
    "patient": {
        "name": "John Doe",
        "dob": "1940-03-19",
        "ssn": "234-23-525",
        "address": "California",
        "phone": "8770586755",
        "email": "johndoe@gmail.com",
        "card_no": "7844481124110331"
    },
    "doctor": "thomas collins",
    "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
    "hospital_id": "grandoak",
    "appointment_date": "2017-04-02"
}
```

> 2. Extract `hospital_id` field and select the hospital service endpoint according to the following criteria. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Extract the `hospital_id` field and select the corresponding hospital service endpoint. 
```

            patient,
            ...reservationRequest
        });

        if resp is ReservationResponse {
            log:printDebug("Reservation request successful",
                            name = patient.name,
                            appointmentNumber = resp.appointmentNumber);
            return resp;
        }

        log:printError("Reservation request failed", resp);
        if resp is http:ClientRequestError {
            return <http:NotFound> {body: "Unknown hospital, doctor or category"};
        }

        return <http:InternalServerError> {body: resp.message()};
    }
}
```

- Define the `hospitalEP` variable. Later, the relevant client is assigned to this variable based on the `hospital_id` value.

    ```ballerina
    http:Client hospitalEP;
    ```

- Use a [typed binding pattern with a mapping binding pattern to destructure](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/rest-binding-pattern-in-mapping-binding-pattern/) the payload and assign required components of the value to separate variables.
    
    ```ballerina
    ReservationRequest {hospital_id, patient, ...reservationRequest} = payload;
    ```
    
    Here,

>     - The `hospital_id` value is assigned to the `hospital_id` variable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The the `hospital_id` value is assigned to the `hospital_id` variable. 
```

Author: `The` is duplicated

    - The `patient` value is assigned to the `patient` variable of type `Patient` (fields are exactly those expected by the `Patient` record). 
    - The remaining components of the payload are collected in a mapping value and assigned to the `reservationRequest` variable.

- The `log` functions are used to [log](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#log) information at `INFO`, `DEBUG`, and `ERROR` log levels.

- Use a [match statement](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/match-statement) to assign the relevant client to the `hospitalEP` variable based on the `hospital_id` value.

    ```ballerina
        match hospital_id {
            GRAND_OAK => {
                hospitalEP = grandOakEP;
            }
            CLEMENCY => {
                hospitalEP = clemencyEP;
            }
            _ => {
                hospitalEP = pineValleyEP;
            }
        }
    ```

> - The backend call is a `POST` request to the backend hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `category` value is used as a path parameter. The response is assigned to the `resp` variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make a `POST` request to the backend hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `category` value is used as a path parameter. The response is assigned to the `resp` variable.
```

Reviewer: Need to describe the payload/request also?

Author: Updated via https://github.com/ballerina-guides/integration-tutorials/pull/4/commits/6834764e3b43b15eefecde1abe244750d8056bc9. Please check.

    ```ballerina
    ReservationResponse|http:ClientError resp = hospitalEP->/[category]/reserve.post({
        patient, 
        ...reservationRequest
    });
    ```

- Use the `is` check to check whether the response is a `ReservationResponse` and return it as is (i.e., reservation successful)

    ```ballerina
    if resp is ReservationResponse {
        log:printDebug("Reservation request successful",
                        name = patient.name,
                        appointmentNumber = resp.appointmentNumber);
        return resp;
    }
    ```

> - If the response is not a `ReservationResponse`, log the information at the `ERROR` level.  Return a "NotFound" response if the response is a `http:ClientRequestError`, or an "InternalServerError" response if the response is a `http:ServerError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the response is not a `ReservationResponse`, log the failure at `ERROR` level.  Return a "NotFound" response if the response is a `http:ClientRequestError`, or an "InternalServerError" response if the response is a `http:ServerError`.
```

# Content-based message routing

## Overview

In this tutorial, you will develop a service via which you can reserve appointments at several hospitals. The requests are routed to the relevant hospital based on the content of the request payload.

> To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. The resource will receive the user request, select the hospital endpoint based on the hospital ID, send a request to the relevant hospital service to make a reservation, and respond with the correct reservation details.

Reviewer: Why do we still have "correct"?

Author: Removed. (Maybe due to multiple changes)

    ```ballerina
        match hospital_id {
            GRAND_OAK => {
                hospitalEP = grandOakEP;
            }
            CLEMENCY => {
                hospitalEP = clemencyEP;
            }
            _ => {
                hospitalEP = pineValleyEP;
            }
        }
    ```

- Make a `POST` request to the backend hospital service to make the reservation. The `category` value is used as a path parameter.

    ```ballerina
    ReservationResponse|http:ClientError resp = hospitalEP->/[category]/reserve.post({
        patient,
        doctor,
        ...reservationRequest
    });
    ```
The expected payload in the request to make the reservation consists of four fields, namely `patient`, `doctor`, `hospital`, and `appointment_date`. The `reservationRequest` variable is used as a rest argument since it contains `hospital`, and `appointment_date`. The payload is specified directly as an argument to the remote method call.

    ```ballerina
    {patient, doctor, ...reservationRequest}
    ```

> - Use the `is` check to check whether the response is a `ReservationResponse` and return it as is (i.e., reservation successful)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the `is` check to check whether the response is a `ReservationResponse` and return it as is (i.e., reservation successful).
```
